# masters-project-2021

I wanted to delve into the process of archival digitisation after realising, throughout the course of my Master's, that the Humanities were benefiting hugely from the support of modern technology. It seemed that in the instances where a text had moved from print to online, it began experiencing readership levels that just could not be matched by a text residing in a Library or a Reading Room, for example. Whilst there are a number of ways in which a text can be digitised, I decided to transcribe a portion of the Jack Common Archive and encode the transcription using an XML Editor, before converting it to HTML to allow it to be viewed online.

Born in Heaton, Newcastle, in 1903, Jack Common found literary success after a move to London in 1928. His debut novel, Kiddar's Luck, did however provide some detail into his early life, more specifically his upbringing as part of a working-class family living in Heaton. Despite having been brought up and educated in Durham, Newcastle and the surrounding areas, my search of the Newcastle University Special Collections & Archives was the first time I had ever come across or heard of Jack Common; it was for this reason that I decided I would make the Jack Common Archive the focal point of my Dissertation. The Jack Common Archive holds a variety of intriguing materials including publishing contracts, correspondence with George Orwell and family photographs, but I felt most drawn to his personal diaries. Having decided that I would select a portion of material from the archive for the purpose of transcribing, encoding and unrestricted online viewing, I felt that Common's personal diaries would be the most suitable place to start as they would present the unedited version of him, born and raised in Heaton as a working-class man, rather than the published author.
